README.md, before:

# MyCows_RFI

This repository bootstraps the initial architecture for the **MyCows_RFI** project. Due to the restricted environment the actual Laravel and Node dependencies are not installed, however the configuration files are provided so that the project can be set up locally.

## Contents

- **backend/** – Laravel backend placeholder with a `docker-compose.yml` ready for [Laravel Sail](https://laravel.com/docs/sail). Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and run `composer create-project` inside this folder to install Laravel.
- **frontend/** – React application scaffolded for Vite. After installing Node dependencies (`npm install`), run `npm run dev` to launch the frontend.
- **.gitignore** – Common ignores for Laravel and Node projects.

The aim of this sprint is to provide the basic structure required to start development once dependencies can be installed.

Sprint 1 introduces skeleton code for user authentication. The backend now contains models, migrations and route stubs for registering and logging in users with Laravel Sanctum, while the frontend provides a basic login form and a protected area.

Sprint 2 adds the core CRUD features for managing animals. An `Animal` model with a migration and API resource controller is included along with filesystem configuration for storing animal images. The React app now offers components to list, create and view animals.

Sprint 3 introduces a basic scoring system. Two new models, `ScoreTemplate` and `Score`, allow defining weighted templates and storing computed values for animals. A `ScoringService` performs the weighted average calculation, and API endpoints expose the ability to fetch or assign scores. The frontend now displays the last score for an animal and provides a simple form to submit new scores.
Default templates for the Brown Swiss, Holstein and Jersey breeds are seeded via `ScoreTemplateSeeder`. Each template distributes weights according to the official scoring scheme so that scores can be calculated consistently across breeds.
The `/api/score-templates` endpoint lists these templates so the frontend can present them in a dropdown.

Sprint 4 integrates IoT data processing. An endpoint accepts sensor readings which are queued to a `ProcessIotData` job. The job detects fever or heat cycles and dispatches notifications. Alerts can be fetched from the API and the frontend renders a simple trend graph with recent alert messages.

Sprint 5 consolidates the collected data. A new dashboard endpoint provides KPI metrics and a `GeneratePdfReport` job produces PDF reports using `laravel-dompdf`. React components render the dashboard and trigger background report generation.

Commit message:

Document setup steps and seed admin user

README.md, after:

# MyCows_RFI

This repository bootstraps the initial architecture for the **MyCows_RFI** project. Due to the restricted environment the actual Laravel and Node dependencies are not installed, however the configuration files are provided so that the project can be set up locally.

## Contents

- **backend/** – Laravel backend placeholder with a `docker-compose.yml` ready for [Laravel Sail](https://laravel.com/docs/sail). Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and run `composer create-project` inside this folder to install Laravel.
- **frontend/** – React application scaffolded for Vite. After installing Node dependencies (`npm install`), run `npm run dev` to launch the frontend.
- **.gitignore** – Common ignores for Laravel and Node projects.

The aim of this sprint is to provide the basic structure required to start development once dependencies can be installed.  The project is split into a **backend** folder for the Laravel API and a **frontend** folder for the React SPA.

## Getting Started

1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/).
2. Clone this repository and run the following commands from inside the `backend` directory:

   ```bash
   composer create-project laravel/laravel .
   cp .env.example .env
   ./vendor/bin/sail up -d
   ./vendor/bin/sail artisan migrate --seed
   ```

   The last command loads default roles, score templates and an admin user.  The seeded admin credentials are:

   - **Email:** `admin@example.com`
   - **Password:** `password`

3. In a second terminal install the frontend dependencies:

   ```bash
   cd frontend
   npm install
   npm run dev
   ```

   The React app will be available at <http://localhost:5173> and will connect to the API served from Sail on port `80`.

Sprint 1 introduces skeleton code for user authentication. The backend now contains models, migrations and route stubs for registering and logging in users with Laravel Sanctum, while the frontend provides a basic login form and a protected area.

Sprint 2 adds the core CRUD features for managing animals. An `Animal` model with a migration and API resource controller is included along with filesystem configuration for storing animal images. The React app now offers components to list, create and view animals.

Sprint 3 introduces a basic scoring system. Two new models, `ScoreTemplate` and `Score`, allow defining weighted templates and storing computed values for animals. A `ScoringService` performs the weighted average calculation, and API endpoints expose the ability to fetch or assign scores. The frontend now displays the last score for an animal and provides a simple form to submit new scores.
Default templates for the Brown Swiss, Holstein and Jersey breeds are seeded via `ScoreTemplateSeeder`. Each template distributes weights according to the official scoring scheme so that scores can be calculated consistently across breeds.
The `/api/score-templates` endpoint lists these templates so the frontend can present them in a dropdown.

Sprint 4 integrates IoT data processing. An endpoint accepts sensor readings which are queued to a `ProcessIotData` job. The job detects fever or heat cycles and dispatches notifications. Alerts can be fetched from the API and the frontend renders a simple trend graph with recent alert messages.

Sprint 5 consolidates the collected data. A new dashboard endpoint provides KPI metrics and a `GeneratePdfReport` job produces PDF reports using `laravel-dompdf`. React components render the dashboard and trigger background report generation.
